                                                          -*- text -*-
GNU Wget
========
                             Current Web home: http://wget.sunsite.dk/

GNU Wget is a free utility for non-interactive download of files from
the Web.  It supports HTTP, HTTPS, and FTP protocols, as well as
retrieval through HTTP proxies.

It can follow links in HTML pages and create local versions of remote
web sites, fully recreating the directory structure of the original
site.  This is sometimes referred to as "recursive downloading."
While doing that, Wget respects the Robot Exclusion Standard
(/robots.txt).  Wget can be instructed to convert the links in
downloaded HTML files to the local files for offline viewing.

Recursive downloading also works with FTP, where Wget can retrieves a
hierarchy of directories and files.

With both HTTP and FTP, Wget can check whether a remote file has
changed on the server since the previous run, and only download the
newer files.

Wget has been designed for robustness over slow or unstable network
connections; if a download fails due to a network problem, it will
keep retrying until the whole file has been retrieved.  If the server
supports regetting, it will instruct the server to continue the
download from where it left off.

If you are behind a firewall that requires the use of a socks style
gateway, you can get the socks library and compile wget with support
for socks.

Most of the features are configurable, either through command-line
options, or via initialization file .wgetrc.  Wget allows you to
install a global startup file (/usr/local/etc/wgetrc by default) for
site settings.

Wget works under almost all Unix variants in use today and, unlike
many of its historical predecessors, is written entirely in C, thus
requiring no additional software, such as Perl.  The external software
it does work with, such as OpenSSL, is optional.  As Wget uses the GNU
Autoconf, it is easily built on and ported to new Unix-like systems.
The installation procedure is described in the INSTALL file.

As with other GNU software, the latest version of Wget can be found at
the master GNU archive site ftp.gnu.org, and its mirrors.  Wget
resides at <ftp://ftp.gnu.org/pub/gnu/wget/>.

Please report bugs in Wget to <bug-wget@gnu.org>.

See the file `MAILING-LIST' for information about Wget mailing lists.
Wget's home page is temporarily at <http://wget.sunsite.dk/>.  It is
being migrated to <http://www.gnu.org/software/wget/>, where will be
its permanent home.


MAINTAINER: Mauro Tortonesi <mauro@ferrara.linux.it>

Wget was originally written by Hrvoje Niksic.  Please see the file
AUTHORS for a list of major contributors, and the ChangeLogs for a
detailed listing of all contributions.


Copyright (C) 2005 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.

In addition, as a special exception, the Free Software Foundation
gives permission to link the code of its release of Wget with the
OpenSSL project's "OpenSSL" library (or with modified versions of it
that use the same license as the "OpenSSL" library), and distribute
the linked executables.  You must obey the GNU General Public License
in all respects for all of the code used other than "OpenSSL".  If you
modify this file, you may extend this exception to your version of the
file, but you are not obligated to do so.  If you do not wish to do
so, delete this exception statement from your version.
